# Four-Legged Spider Robot Locomotion Using DDPG Agent
This project shows how to train a Four Legged Spider Robot to walk using a deep deterministic policy gradient (DDPG) agent. The robot in this example is modeled using Simscape™ Multibody™. For more information on DDPG agents, see Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient Agents.
The robot is modeled using Simscape Multibody with its main structural components consisting of the environment, which contains the robot model and the physical environment around the robot (Tiny Spider Block), reinforcement learning agent, and the required inputs of the agent such as the observations vector, the reward value, and the stopping criteria. The robots' joints are actuated by torque signals provided by the RL Agent.

In this project, the  reinforcement learning (RL) is implemented in different simulation enviroments, Simulation environments represent different terrains the robot could interact with in real life based on the required application. These scenarios showcase the efficacy of reinforcement learning (RL) training in developing policies for locomotion control across varied terrains. In this thesis, the agent was trained on five different terrains. The first terrain is a flat surface where the robot must be able to move forward without any change in the surface elevation. The second terrain is called Ramp 1, where the robot must be able to move on a ramp tilted 10 degrees from the x-axis, and the start position of the robot body is in parallel with the ramp. The third terrain is Ramp 2, where the robot starts moving on a flat surface, then moves over a ramp tilted 11 degrees for a distance of 1 m, and then walks again on a flat surface. The fourth terrain is Ramp 3, where the robot must overcome a speed bump with a tilting angle of 11 degrees. The fifth terrain is a rough surface implemented as a surface grid with different elevation values, representing a challenging environment for the robot to walk into.

## Instructions
Each folder contains a MATLAB .mlx file that explains all the details of implementing reinforcement learning. Also, it shows how to run the simulation for previously saved successful agents.

